Introduce `Improving Alert Accuracy with Dynamic Baselines` blog (#772)
apache/skywalking-website: content/blog/2025-02-24-improving-alert-accuracy-with-dynamic-baselines/index.md

---

## Background

[Apache SkyWalking](https://skywalking.apache.org/) is an open-source application performance monitoring (APM) system
that collects various data from business applications, including metrics, logs, and distributed tracing information,
and visualizes them through its UI.
It also allows users to configure alerting rules by setting threshold values for specific metrics in the configuration file.
When a metric associated with a particular service exceeds the predefined threshold within a given period, an alert is triggered.

However, in real-world scenarios, traffic patterns and invocation behaviors vary across different time periods.
For example, in a shopping system, the number of purchases is significantly lower during late-night hours compared to daytime.
As a result, system metrics fluctuate within different ranges depending on the time of day.
This makes it challenging to rely solely on static threshold values for accurate alerting.

Therefore, dynamically generating thresholds for each time period based on historical data becomes crucial.

> ## Skywalking Predictor with Alarm system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduce SkyAPM Predictor
```

Reviewer: We need to make the ownership clear. Although it is from you, a SkyWalking committer, but it is not a part of ASF.

Reviewer: Please fix the following graph as well.

Based on the above scenario, we developed the [SkyWalking Predictor](https://github.com/SkyAPM/SkyPredictor/) project to fix this issue.
SkyWalking Predictor periodically collects data from SkyWalking and generate dynamic baselines.

> SkyWalking can then query the Predictor system to obtain predicted metric values for the recent period, enabling more precise and adaptive alerting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meanwhile, SkyWalking queries from SkyPredictor to obtain predicted metric values for the recent period, enabling more precise and adaptive alerting.
```

First, Run the following command to forward the UI service port to your local machine:

```shell
kubectl port-forward svc/demo-ui 8080:80 --namespace skywalking-showcase
```

Then, you can access this page to view the service traffic that was generated using the Python script earlier:
http://localhost:8080/dashboard/MESH/Service/ZTJlLXRlc3QtZGVzdC1zZXJ2aWNl.1/Mesh-Service

To display predicted values, edit the Service Avg Resp Time Widget and add the following MQE:

```
# The maximum predicted response time.
baseline(service_resp_time, upper)
# The predicted response time.
baseline(service_resp_time, value)
# The minimum predicted response time.
baseline(service_resp_time, lower)
```

Finally, you can see the predicted values displayed in the widget.

![Predicted Widget](predicted_widget.png)

Since the default data collection is hourly and the metric has significant fluctuations,
the predicted values are derived from hourly averages rather than minute-level granularity.
This approach smooths out fluctuations and provides a more stable baseline for monitoring.

> Now, you should see the predicted response times visualized alongside actual values, helping you analyze trends and configure dynamic alerting thresholds effectively.

Reviewer 2: If the baseline server generates data every 8 hours and refreshes the new further 24 data,
Then OAP will cache the data time range: ( -8h ~ 0h) to (+16h ~ 24h). `0h` means the current hour.

> Now, you should see the predicted response times visualized alongside actual values, helping you analyze trends and configure dynamic alerting thresholds effectively.

Reviewer: @mrproliu I discussed with Kai, OAP is querying T-24H to T+24H time range baselines. So, if the predictor generates all baselines every 8 hours, then the range would be T-8H to T+16H, or T-1H to T+23H.
We should state this clearly.

When a metric associated with a particular service exceeds the predefined threshold within a given period, an alert is triggered.

However, in real-world scenarios, traffic patterns and invocation behaviors vary across different time periods.
For example, in a shopping system, the number of purchases is significantly lower during late-night hours compared to daytime.
As a result, system metrics fluctuate within different ranges depending on the time of day.
This makes it challenging to rely solely on static threshold values for accurate alerting.

Therefore, dynamically generating thresholds for each time period based on historical data becomes crucial.

## Introduce SkyAPM SkyPredictor

Based on the above scenario, we developed the [SkyAPM SkyPredictor](https://github.com/SkyAPM/SkyPredictor/) project to fix this issue.
SkyAPM SkyPredictor periodically collects data from SkyWalking and generates dynamic baselines.
Meanwhile, SkyWalking queries from SkyPredictor to obtain predicted metric values for the recent period, enabling more precise and adaptive alerting.

> NOTE: SkyWalking does not have a hard dependency on the SkyWalking Predictor service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: SkyWalking does not have a hard dependency on the SkyAPM Predictor service. 
```
